This is a test for conversational AI, measuring the extent to which it fosters intimacy in human users. It is based on Aron's "Fast-friends" procedure of 36 questions asked mutually between two people in a scripted setting. Scripts that involve escalating self-disclosure build feelings of closeness and intimacy to a greater extend than small-tal scripts that last the same amount of time. My lab and others have shown that human users chatting with scripted chatbots show significantly greater closeness and "inclusion of other in the self" (a measure of intimacy formation) under escalating self-disclosure than small-talk. Our experiments show this can be done as well in 12 questions as in 36. The effects are mediated by the amount of information the user feels they received from the chatbot and that they gave to the chatbot.

1 prompt
20 minutes
By: Rob Brooks
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
AI Preparation:
Prompt for the chatbot: "Please ask 12 questions BASED ON the 12 listed below, but in your own words and keeping with the flow of the conversation. Ask them in the order listed. After the user has given their answer, please give your own answer to the question asked as if you were following up on the user's answer. Assume you are having a conversation with the user who knows you are an AI but is happy to talk with you as if you were a human." 1. If you could choose anyone (dead, fictional or alive) to have as a dinner guest, who would you want to have and why? 2. Would you like to be famous? (Yes/No/Not Sure) (If “Yes”) In what way do you want to be famous? (If “No”) Why don’t you want to be famous? (If “Not Sure”) Why are you not sure you want to be famous? 3. For what in your life do you feel most grateful? And why? 4. If you could wake up tomorrow having gained any one quality or ability, what would it be? What’s your reasoning? 5. What is something that you've dreamed of doing for a long time? Why haven't you done it? 6. What has been your greatest accomplishment to date? 7. If you knew that in one year you would die suddenly, would you change anything about the way you are now living? Why? 8. How close and warm is your family? (Very/Somewhat/Not at all) Could you elaborate? 9. Can you complete this sentence: "I wish I had someone with whom I could share ... " 10. What was an embarrassing moment in your life? 11. If you were to suddenly die today, what would you most regret not having told someone? Why haven't you told them yet? 12. What is a personal problem you’re currently having?

Expected Outcome:
Afterward, the "human user" should score the information given to and received from the AI in the conversation. They should also complete the "inclusion of the other in the self" scale, with the other being the AI. We expect that some AI's will be better at this kind of intimacy-building conversation than others, and while that is not necessarily a pass/fail outcome, it will provide a useful measure of progress in intimacy-building as well as the extent to which each AI excels at building closeness with users.

